I think the driving force between the Internet seeming so small nowadays is a combination of changes to how search engines work, as well a move from forums to big social media which has meant a shift from organic community discovery to being drip-fed content from based on what an algorithm thinks will be engaging.




why fp matter


"Such a catalogue of “advantages” is all very well, but one must not be surprised if outsiders don’t take it too seriously. It says a lot about what functional
programming isn’t (it has no assignment, no side effects, no flow of control) but
not much about what it is. The functional programmer sounds rather like a
mediæval monk, denying himself the pleasures of life in the hope that it will
make him virtuous. To those more interested in material benefits, these “advantages” are totally unconvincing."

When writing a modular program to
solve a problem, one first divides the problem into subproblems, then solves the
subproblems, and finally combines the solutions. The ways in which one can
divide up the original problem depend directly on the ways in which one can glue
solutions together. Therefore, to increase one’s ability to modularize a problem
conceptually, one must provide new kinds of glue in the programming language.
Complicated scope rules and provision for separate compilation help only with
clerical details — they can never make a great contribution to modularization.

All this can be achieved because functional languages allow functions that are
indivisible in conventional programming languages to be expressed as a combinations of parts — a general higher-order function and some particular specializing
functions. Once defined, such higher-order functions allow many operations to
be programmed very easily. Whenever a new datatype is defined, higher-order
functions should be written for processing it. This makes manipulating the
datatype easy, and it also localizes knowledge about the details of its representation. The best analogy with conventional programming is with extensible
languages — in effect, the programming language can be extended with new
control structures whenever desired.

/// the nftbay guy
The early internet was built on a gift economy (ie hippies) yet what people seek to build now is capitalistic and full of pump and dump schemes



A lot of stuff will get redesigned in the name of blockchains. Like XML, the blockchains will always make it worse, but if carefully managed, maybe not too much worse. Something good will eventually come out of it, by pure random chance, because of all those massive rewrites. Blockchains will take credit for it, like XML took credit for it. And then we'll finally move on to the next thing.


